Specify behavior for post-handshake CRYPTO messages (#2524)
quicwg/base-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-transport.md

Endpoints MUST explicitly negotiate an application protocol.  This avoids
situations where there is a disagreement about the protocol that is in use.

> Implementations need to maintain a buffer of CRYPTO data received out of order.

Reviewer: I think that this needs a new section heading.  Section 7.4 "After Handshake Completion" perhaps, after the transport parameters, could be what it is, but it might be better to say "Cryptographic Message Buffering" and discuss the handshake a little (more below).

Author: I moved this to the end of section 7 in a new subsection.

Because there is no flow control of CRYPTO frames, and endpoint could
potentially force its peer to buffer an unbounded amount of data.

> Implementations MUST support buffering at least 4096 bytes of data.

Reviewer: Does this requirement apply during the handshake?  Perhaps document some recommendations.

Being unable to buffer CRYPTO frames during the handshake leads to connection failure. Endpoints MAY choose to allow more data to be buffered during the handshake and reduce buffering once the handshake completes.  A larger limit during the handshake could allow for larger keys or credentials to be exchanged.

Author: Yes, it applies during the handshake.

I've updated the text to discuss buffer sizing and separate out pre- vs post-handshake completion behavior.

Once the handshake completes, if an endpoint is unable to buffer all data in a
CRYPTO frame, it MAY discard all subsequent CRYPTO frames, or it MAY close the

> connection with an INTERNAL_ERROR code. In the case where an endpoint chooses to

Reviewer 2: If we're going to close the connection, can we pick an error code from the CRYPTO_ERROR section?  "CRYPTO_ERROR (0x1XX):"

> connection with an INTERNAL_ERROR code. In the case where an endpoint chooses to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
connection with an INTERNAL_ERROR code. If an endpoint chooses to
```

Author: Done.

discard all subsequent CRYPTO frames, the packets containing these CRYPTO frames

> are still ACKed. An endpoint in this condition MAY tear down state for its

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are still ackknowledged. An endpoint in this condition MAY tear down state for its
```

Author: Done.

cryptographic handshake, keeping only the material needed for the current

> encryption keys and any future key updates.

Reviewer: I would drop the last sentence here.  It's an optimization that is sufficiently obvious.

Author: Dropped.

{{iana-transport-parameters}}.

## Cryptographic Message Buffering

Implementations need to maintain a buffer of CRYPTO data received out of order.
Because there is no flow control of CRYPTO frames, an endpoint could
potentially force its peer to buffer an unbounded amount of data.

Implementations MUST support buffering at least 4096 bytes of data received in
CRYPTO frames out of order. Endpoints MAY choose to allow more data to be
buffered during the handshake. A larger limit during the handshake could allow
for larger keys or credentials to be exchanged. An endpoint's buffer size does
not need to remain constant during the life of the connection.

> Being unable to buffer CRYPTO frames during the handshake leads to a connection

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Being unable to buffer CRYPTO frames during the handshake can lead to a connection
```

failure. If an endpoint's buffer is exceeded during the handshake, it can expand
its buffer temporarily to complete the handshake. If an endpoint cannot expand

> its buffer, it MAY close the connection with a CRYPTO_BUFFER_EXCEEDED error

Reviewer: ```suggestion
its buffer, it MUST close the connection with a CRYPTO_BUFFER_EXCEEDED error
```

I don't see any other recourse, do you?

Author: I was thinking it could grow its buffer, but I've already preconditioned with it not doing that, so a MUST here makes sense.

code.

Once the handshake completes, if an endpoint is unable to buffer all data in a

> CRYPTO frame, it MAY discard all subsequent CRYPTO frames, or it MAY close the

Reviewer 3: This isn't clear to me. If the endpoint is unable to buffer data in a CRYPTO frame, why does it need to drop _subsequent_ CRYPTO frames?

Reviewer 4: Because TLS handshake messages require a stream that guarantees in-order delivery. Once you discard some bytes, you cannot use subsequent data on the stream. Therefore, the only way to keep the connection open after discarding some bytes is to discard all the following bytes, while sending ACKs.

Reviewer 3: Ah, ok, thanks @kazuho.

connection with an CRYPTO_BUFFER_EXCEEDED error code. If an endpoint chooses to
discard all subsequent CRYPTO frames, the packets containing these CRYPTO frames

> MUST be acknowledged.

Reviewer 3: The endpoint MUST ack frames that are dropped? I don't think I follow this.

Reviewer 2: They were received and processed at the transport layer, so this makes sense.

How about "Packets containing discarded CRYPTO frames MUST be acknowledged, because they were received and processed by the transport, even though they were discarded prior to the crypto stack processing them."

Author: I tweaked the wording to be similar to that.

> are still acknowledged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MUST be acknowledged.
```

{{iana-transport-parameters}}.

## Cryptographic Message Buffering

Implementations need to maintain a buffer of CRYPTO data received out of order.
Because there is no flow control of CRYPTO frames, an endpoint could
potentially force its peer to buffer an unbounded amount of data.

Implementations MUST support buffering at least 4096 bytes of data received out
of order in CRYPTO frames. Endpoints MAY choose to allow more data to be
buffered during the handshake. A larger limit during the handshake could allow
for larger keys or credentials to be exchanged. An endpoint's buffer size does
not need to remain constant during the life of a connection.

Being unable to buffer CRYPTO frames during the handshake can lead to a
connection failure. If its buffer is exceeded during the handshake, an endpoint
can temporarily expand its buffer to complete the handshake. If an endpoint

> cannot expand its buffer, it MUST close the connection with a

Reviewer 5: "cannot" implies ability, when the endpoint might simply not want to.  Perhaps better to say "does not" expand?

Author: I've changed this to "does not".

CRYPTO_BUFFER_EXCEEDED error code.

Once the handshake completes, if an endpoint is unable to buffer all data in a

> CRYPTO frame, it MAY discard all subsequent CRYPTO frames, or it MAY close the

Reviewer 5: "subsequent" here could mean further in the CRYPTO stream, or could mean received later in time.  If the latter, then the currently-buffered crypto data will never be delivered and can also be discarded; we should say so.  In either case, we should be specific about which "subsequent" we mean.

Author: I didn't consider it potentially meaning further in the CRYPTO stream (I was thinking later in time). I've clarified that it means later in time.

Previously I had added language to state that if CRYPTO frames are being discarded, then the endpoint can tear down all crypto state that it has. I removed that since @martinthomson pointed out that's an obvious thing to do. I'm thinking that discarding any buffered but not processed crypto data falls under tearing down crypto state. If this no longer seems obvious, I'll add back that the endpoint can tear down crypto state and discard any remaining buffered crypto data.
